---
layout: post
title:  "Utah Snow Accumulation Study: EDA and Findings"
author: Aaron Brown
description: A conclusion to my study on Utah snow data; findings and takeaways.
image: "/assets/images/snow_post.jpg"
--- 

## Study Introduction

To reiterate from my last post: in recent decades, Utah and surrounding states in the U.S. have been experiencing a long-term drought. Communities are scrounging around for methods of efficient water usage to provide for their yards/landscape. For the western region of the U.S., one of the primary sources of these issues is the continuously-changing patterns in snow supply (primarily mountain snow). It is crucial to understand the patterns of snow accumulation to get an idea for the general direction of the drought in Utah and neighboring states. Mountain snow, more than anything else, is a key metric in determining the quality of the upcoming year when it comes to precipitation levels. However, these levels also determine the destiny of other aspects of society, such as the success of an economy fractionally built upon agriculture and recreational activities, including golf and skiing. Despite the surgeance of this drought, if there is, truly, a steady decrease in snowpack, is it due to lowering levels of seasonal precipitation, or is it due to shifting patterns of weather based on global warming trends? This study has led me to this question, which I will answer to the best of my ability, according to the data I have extracted from USDA sites as well as my analysis of such observations.

The observations were extracted from the USDA's [Air & Water Database](https://wcc.sc.egov.usda.gov/nwcc/snow-course-sites.jsp?state=UT). The next sections discuss the results of my study, along with answers to the following: is there evidence of a decrease in snowpack/seasonal precipitation, and if so, what evidence is there to attribute it to the ongoing drought versus irregular fluctuations in weather patterns due to global trends?